feat: add document load under Frontend and Mobile Monitoring (#1023)
SigNoz/signoz.io: data/docs/frontend-monitoring/document-load.mdx

---
date: 2024-12-04
id: document-load
title: Document Load
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

## Overview

> This documentation will cover how to use OpenTelemetry to auto-instrument your web application to collect document load data. Also, you will learn how to use SigNoz to visualize and act on the collected data by setting useful alerts on the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This documentation explains how to auto-instrument your web application to collect document load data, visualize it as traces in SigNoz, and set useful alerts.
```

> <Tabs>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Tabs entityName="plans">
```

This was introduced recently and is needed for SaaS

<TabItem value="cloud" label="SigNoz Cloud" default>

> **Here's a quick summary of what you will be doing in this guide**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Let's skip this section as it doesn't add any tangible value for a user. Once we have the table of contents working as expected, the user can use it to navigate to a particular section.

> * Auto-Instrument a Web Application to collect Document Load Data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * Send Telemetry Data to SigNoz.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * Setup Useful Alerts on Document Trace Data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Prerequisites

> * A [SigNoz](https://signoz.io/teams/) Cloud Account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Not needed as it is already inside the Cloud Tab

> * A Web Application for capturing document load data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A Web Application for capturing document load data
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Setup
```

Steps should be part of the Setup section.

> ### Step 1: Download the Sample Web Application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Since we have mentioned in the Prerequisite that the user should have a web application, this step is not needed. Make the next step as the first step.

As a rule of thumb, for documentation, we should not have sample apps as a part of the Setup steps since documentation should be agnostic of any particular application.

> You can download and use the sample React application. If you have a web application to use, you can skip this step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> git clone https://github.com/SigNoz/sample-reactjs-app.git

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Step 2: Create an Instrumentation file

> In the `src` directory of your web application, create a new JavaScript file (e.g., `otel-setup.js`) and paste the code below.

Reviewer: Also explain what the below code will do in 1-2 lines

> ```javascript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```javascript:otel-setup.js
```

import { WebTracerProvider } from '@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-web';
import { DocumentLoadInstrumentation } from '@opentelemetry/instrumentation-document-load';
import { registerInstrumentations } from '@opentelemetry/instrumentation';
import { OTLPTraceExporter } from '@opentelemetry/exporter-trace-otlp-http';
import { SimpleSpanProcessor } from '@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-base';
import { Resource } from '@opentelemetry/resources';

// Initialize the provider

> const provider = new WebTracerProvider({ resource: new Resource({ "service.name": "<SERVICE_NAME>" }) // Set the SigNoz Cloud collector URL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const provider = new WebTracerProvider({ resource: new Resource({ "service.name": "<service_name>" }) // Set the SigNoz Cloud collector URL
```

// create an OTLP exporter configured to send trace data to your SigNoz Cloud
const otlpExporter = new OTLPTraceExporter({

>   url: `https://ingest.${REGION}.signoz.cloud:${PORT}/v1/traces`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  url: `https://ingest.<region>.signoz.cloud:443/v1/traces`,
```

`443` is the port we use for cloud. Could you confirm this that you used the `443` port and comment here.

Author: Yes, definitely. I used 443 port.

>   headers: { 'signoz-access-token': "<SIGNOZ_INGESTION_KEY>" });

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  headers: { 'signoz-access-token': "<your-ingestion-key>" });
```

// Add the exporter to the span processor
provider.addSpanProcessor(new SimpleSpanProcessor(otlpExporter));

// Register the provider
provider.register();

// Register automatic instrumentation for document load
registerInstrumentations({
  instrumentations: [
    new DocumentLoadInstrumentation()
  ],
});

console.log('OpenTelemetry instrumentation initialized');
```

> Ensure to replace the placeholders for `<SERVICE_NAME>`, `<REGION>`,  `<PORT>`, and `<SIGNOZ_INGESTION_KEY>` with your actual service name, region, port, and SigNoz ingestion key, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Set the `<region>` to match your SigNoz Cloud [region](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/signoz-cloud/overview/#endpoint)
- Replace `<your-ingestion-key>` with your SigNoz [ingestion key](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/signoz-cloud/keys/).
- `<service_name>` is name of your service
```

> You can find your ingestion key in the following places:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * The mail which you received from SigNoz after signing up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * Inside settings on SigNoz dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Depending on the choice of your region for SigNoz cloud, the ingest endpoint will vary according to this table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Replaced with proper links in the above comment.

> | Region | Endpoint |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> | --- | --- |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> | US | ingest.us.signoz.cloud:443/v1/traces |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> | IN | ingest.in.signoz.cloud:443/v1/traces |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> | EU | ingest.eu.signoz.cloud:443/v1/traces |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> These are the variables you need to replace:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Replaced with proper explanation in the previous comment

> | Placeholder | Description |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> | --- | --- |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> | `<SIGNOZ_INGESTION_KEY>` | Your SigNoz ingestion key |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> | `<PORT>` | Port (default: 443) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> | `<REGION>` | Region for SigNoz ingestion URL |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Step 3: Send Telemetry data to SigNoz

To send Telemetry data to SigNoz, import `otel-setup.js` into  `index.js` and save the changes.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
Just put a small snippet of code explaining how to import the `otel-setup.js` file into `index.js` file.

Just show the import section of the code.

### Step 4: Start the App

Go to the root folder of your web application, and run the following command:

```bash
npm start
```

> Congratulations! You have successfully integrated OpenTelemetry Auto-instrumentation into your web application. It’s time to see the collected data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will now see your application in the **Services** section in the SigNoz sidebar.
```

> Visit your running SigNoz Cloud Instance. Navigate to the **Services** section in the sidebar to view your service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<figure data-zoomable align='center'>
<img className="box-shadowed-image" src="/img/docs/frontend-monitoring/document-load-services-section-image.webp" alt="SigNoz Services Interface"/>
<figcaption><i>SigNoz Services Interface</i></figcaption>
</figure>

### Step 5: Document Load Trace Data

The document load data is automatically captured in the **Traces** section of the SigNoz dashboard as soon as your application is loaded.

<figure data-zoomable align='center'>
<img className="box-shadowed-image" src="/img/docs/frontend-monitoring/document-load-traces-section.webp" alt="Trace Data on Document Load"/>
<figcaption><i>Trace Data on Document Load</i></figcaption>
</figure>

> ## Why is the Data Collected Useful?

Reviewer: This should be part of the overview section.
Please move this to the Overview section. Remove the heading "Why is the Data Collected Useful?"

> Using OpenTelemetry to capture data on **document load** is useful because it allows you to monitor your application's key performance metrics. This data is essential for:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

1. **Page Load Sequence**: Traces give you insight into the sequence of operations during document load, helping identify slow resources or inefficient processes that may delay rendering.
2.  **Content Delivery**: By understanding where delays occur (such as in external resource fetches or script execution), you can take specific actions to improve how content is delivered to users.
3. **Slow Resources**: Trace data reveals third-party services or external APIs that may cause slowdowns, enabling decisions to cache, optimize, or delay the loading of those resources.
4. **Proactive Monitoring**: Continuously tracking document load traces helps identify bottlenecks before they affect a large portion of users, allowing for preemptive performance tuning.
5. **Latency Causes**: Pinpointing delays in content load allow for targeted optimizations, whether caused by large assets, server issues, or inefficient scripts.

## Setup Alerts

> You can create **trace-based alerts** by using the `Create an Alert` button in the **Traces** section.  Alternatively, you can directly create it from the **Alerts** section. To create and manage trace-based alerts, follow [this guide](https://signoz.io/docs/alerts-management/trace-based-alerts/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

You can set alerts on document load key indicators such as **`documentLoad`**, **`documentFetch`**, and **`resourceFetch`.**  SigNoz also provides options allowing you to filter document trace data by `status code`, `HTTP URL`, `HTTP method`, etc. Below is an example of how to set useful alerts on document load trace data.

### Create an Alert

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create **trace-based alerts** by using the `Create an Alert` button in the [Save View](https://signoz.io/docs/product-features/saved-view/) button at the bottom of **Traces** section.  Alternatively, you can directly create it from the **Alerts** section. To create and manage trace-based alerts, follow [this guide](https://signoz.io/docs/alerts-management/trace-based-alerts/).

In this example, we will set up an alert for `ResourceFetch`. Resource Fetch reports all the resources, including external scripts, images, style sheets, fonts, and other assets, that are required to render a webpage. Knowing the time it takes to fetch resources will be useful in taking proactive action to optimize your application using caching or other optimization strategies.
```

Add this just below the Create an Alert section

<figure data-zoomable align='center'>
<img className="box-shadowed-image" src="/img/docs/frontend-monitoring/resource-fetch-alert-sample.webp" alt="Resource Alert Fetch Sample"/>
<figcaption><i>ResourceFetch Trace Alert Sample</i></figcaption>
</figure>

> To create an alert, you will use the `Create an Alert` button in the **Traces** section. In this example, you will be setting up an alert for `ResourceFetch`. Resource Fetch reports all the resources, including external scripts, images, style sheets, fonts, and other assets, that are required to render a webpage. Knowing the time it takes to fetch resources will be useful in helping you take proactive action to optimize your application using caching or other optimization strategies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> In the `Traces Based Alerts` page, set the `Traces` field to `service.name = <SERVICE_NAME>`  and `name = resourceFetch` . Next, set the `Y-axis units` to seconds. You can also set the `Legend Format` to `Resource Fetch`. Save and run the query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `Traces Based Alerts` page, set the `Traces` field to `service.name = <service_name>`  and `name = resourceFetch` . Next, set the `Y-axis units` to seconds. You can also set the `Legend Format` to `Resource Fetch`and then press the **Stage & Run Query** button.
```

<figure data-zoomable align='center'>
<img className="box-shadowed-image" src="/img/docs/frontend-monitoring/define-the-metric.webp" alt="Define the Metric"/>
<figcaption><i>Set the Traces Field to filter ResourceFetch Data</i></figcaption>
</figure>

### Define Alert Condition

> Next, you will define an alert condition. Set the `Send a notification when ...`  field to read as **Send a notification when `A` is `above` the threshold `at least once` during the last `5 mins`.** Next, set the `Alert Thresholds` field to `10 seconds`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Define an alert condition with **Send a notification when `A` is `above` the threshold `at least once` during the last `5 mins`** and set the  `Alert Threshold` field to `10 seconds`.
```

<figure data-zoomable align='center'>
<img className="box-shadowed-image" src="/img/docs/frontend-monitoring/alert-conditions.webp" alt="Set Alert Condition"/>
<figcaption><i>Set the Alert Condition</i></figcaption>
</figure>

### Set Alert Configuration

> Here, set the severity field to `critical`. Next, set the `Alert Name` field to `ResourceFetch`. Next, turn on the alert all notification channel field. Lastly, save the rule and test the notification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the `Severity` field to `critical`, the `Alert Name` field to `ResourceFetch`, toggle on the `Alert all the configured channels` field to alert all the notification channels. You can choose to send the alert to a particular notification channel by selecting a particular Notifcation Channel from the dropdown. Save the rule and test the notification.
```

<figure data-zoomable align='center'>
<img className="box-shadowed-image" src="/img/docs/frontend-monitoring/alert-configuration.webp" alt="Set Alert Configuration"/>
<figcaption><i>Set the Alert Configuration</i></figcaption>
</figure>

> With that, you have successfully integrated OpenTelemetry to auto-instrument your web application for collecting document load data. You have also learned how to set useful alerts on the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this, you have successfully set up a useful alerts on your data.
```

<figure data-zoomable align='center'>
<img className="box-shadowed-image" src="/img/docs/frontend-monitoring/alert-rules.webp" alt="Alert Rules"/>
<figcaption><i>ResourceFetch Alert Rule is OK</i></figcaption>
</figure>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="self-host" label="Self-Host" default>

> **Here's a quick summary of what you will be doing in this guide**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * Auto-Instrument a Web Application to collect Document Load Data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * Send Telemetry Data to SigNoz.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * Setup Useful Alerts on Document Trace Data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Prerequisites

> * A [Self-Hosted](https://signoz.io/docs/install/docker/) SigNoz.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * A Web Application for capturing document load data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A Web Application for capturing document load data
```

> ### Step 1: Download the Sample Web Application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> You can download and use the sample React application. If you have a web application to use, you can skip this step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> git clone https://github.com/SigNoz/sample-reactjs-app.git

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Step 2: Create an Instrumentation file

> In the `src` directory of your web application, create a new JavaScript file (e.g., `otel-setup.js`) and paste the code below.

Reviewer: Also explain what the below code will do in 1-2 lines

```javascript
import { WebTracerProvider } from '@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-web';
import { DocumentLoadInstrumentation } from '@opentelemetry/instrumentation-document-load';
import { registerInstrumentations } from '@opentelemetry/instrumentation';
import { OTLPTraceExporter } from '@opentelemetry/exporter-trace-otlp-http';
import { SimpleSpanProcessor } from '@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-base';
import { Resource } from '@opentelemetry/resources';

// Initialize the provider

> const provider = new WebTracerProvider({ resource: new Resource({ "service.name": "<SERVICE_NAME>" }) // Set the SigNoz Cloud collector URL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const provider = new WebTracerProvider({ resource: new Resource({ "service.name": "<service_name>" }) // Set the SigNoz Cloud collector URL
```

// create an OTLP exporter configured to send trace data to your Self-Hosted SigNoz
const otlpExporter = new OTLPTraceExporter({
  url: '/v1/traces',
  headers: {
    'Content-Type': 'application/json',
  },
});

// Add the exporter to the span processor
provider.addSpanProcessor(new SimpleSpanProcessor(otlpExporter));

// Register the provider
provider.register();

// Register automatic instrumentation for document load
registerInstrumentations({
  instrumentations: [
    new DocumentLoadInstrumentation()
  ],
});

console.log('OpenTelemetry instrumentation initialized');
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `<service_name>` is name of your service
```

> Ensure to replace the placeholders for `<SERVICE_NAME>` with your actual service name. Set a proxy in your `package.json` pointing to to the SigNoz OTLP HTTP endpoint. This is an easier temporary setup to bypass CORS issues. You can use [this documentation](https://signoz.io/docs/userguide/otlp-http-enable-cors/) to guide you on dealing with CORS issues for a permanent setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set a proxy in your `package.json` pointing to to the SigNoz OTLP HTTP endpoint. This is an easier temporary setup to bypass CORS issues. You can use [this documentation](https://signoz.io/docs/userguide/otlp-http-enable-cors/) to guide you on dealing with CORS issues for a permanent setup.
```

```bash
{
      "proxy": "http://localhost:4318"
}
```

### Step 3: Send Telemetry data to SigNoz

To send Telemetry data to SigNoz, import `otel-setup.js` into  `index.js` and save the changes.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Just put a small snippet of code explaining how to import the `otel-setup.js` file into `index.js` file.

Just show the import section of the code.

### Step 4: Start the App

Go to the root folder of your web application, and run the following command:

```bash
npm start
```

> Congratulations! You have successfully integrated OpenTelemetry Auto-instrumentation into your web application. It’s time to see the collected data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will now see your application in the **Services** section in the SigNoz sidebar.

```

> Visit your running SigNoz Cloud Instance. Navigate to the **Services** section in the sidebar to view your service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<figure data-zoomable align='center'>
<img className="box-shadowed-image" src="/img/docs/frontend-monitoring/document-load-services-section-image.webp" alt="SigNoz Services Interface"/>
<figcaption><i>SigNoz Services Interface</i></figcaption>
</figure>

### Step 5: Document Load Trace Data

The document load data is automatically captured in the **Traces** section of the SigNoz dashboard as soon as your application is loaded.

<figure data-zoomable align='center'>
<img className="box-shadowed-image" src="/img/docs/frontend-monitoring/document-load-traces-section.webp" alt="Trace Data on Document Load"/>
<figcaption><i>Trace Data on Document Load</i></figcaption>
</figure>

> ## Why is the Data Collected Useful?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

As mentioned in the Cloud section comment, this should be part of the overview section and since the overview section is common for both cloud and self-host tabs, this portion can be completely removed from here.

Using OpenTelemetry to capture data on **document load** is useful because it allows you to monitor your application's key performance metrics. This data is essential for:

1. **Page Load Sequence**: Traces give you insight into the sequence of operations during document load, helping identify slow resources or inefficient processes that may delay rendering.
2.  **Content Delivery**: By understanding where delays occur (such as in external resource fetches or script execution), you can take specific actions to improve how content is delivered to users.
3. **Slow Resources**: Trace data reveals third-party services or external APIs that may cause slowdowns, enabling decisions to cache, optimize, or delay the loading of those resources.
4. **Proactive Monitoring**: Continuously tracking document load traces helps identify bottlenecks before they affect a large portion of users, allowing for preemptive performance tuning.
5. **Latency Causes**: Pinpointing delays in content load allow for targeted optimizations, whether caused by large assets, server issues, or inefficient scripts.

## Setup Alerts

> You can create **trace-based alerts** by using the `Create an Alert` button in the **Traces** section.  Alternatively, you can directly create it from the **Alerts** section. To create and manage trace-based alerts, follow [this guide](https://signoz.io/docs/alerts-management/trace-based-alerts/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

You can set alerts on document load key indicators such as **`documentLoad`**, **`documentFetch`**, and **`resourceFetch`.**  SigNoz also provides options allowing you to filter document trace data by `status code`, `HTTP URL`, `HTTP method`, etc. Below is an example of how to set useful alerts on document load trace data.

### Create an Alert

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create **trace-based alerts** by using the `Create an Alert` button in the [Save View](https://signoz.io/docs/product-features/saved-view/) button at the bottom of **Traces** section.  Alternatively, you can directly create it from the **Alerts** section. To create and manage trace-based alerts, follow [this guide](https://signoz.io/docs/alerts-management/trace-based-alerts/).

In this example, we will set up an alert for `ResourceFetch`. Resource Fetch reports all the resources, including external scripts, images, style sheets, fonts, and other assets, that are required to render a webpage. Knowing the time it takes to fetch resources will be useful in taking proactive action to optimize your application using caching or other optimization strategies.
```

<figure data-zoomable align='center'>
<img className="box-shadowed-image" src="/img/docs/frontend-monitoring/resource-fetch-alert-sample.webp" alt="Resource Alert Fetch Sample"/>
<figcaption><i>ResourceFetch Trace Alert Sample</i></figcaption>
</figure>

> To create an alert, you will use the `Create an Alert` button in the **Traces** section. In this example, you will be setting up an alert for `ResourceFetch`. Resource Fetch reports all the resources, including external scripts, images, style sheets, fonts, and other assets, that are required to render a webpage. Knowing the time it takes to fetch resources will be useful in helping you take proactive action to optimize your application using caching or other optimization strategies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> In the `Traces Based Alerts` page, set the `Traces` field to `service.name = <TabItem>`  and `name = resourceFetch` . Next, set the `Y-axis units` to seconds. You can also set the `Legend Format` to `Resource Fetch`. Save and run the query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `Traces Based Alerts` page, set the `Traces` field to `service.name = <service_name>`  and `name = resourceFetch` . Next, set the `Y-axis units` to seconds. You can also set the `Legend Format` to `Resource Fetch`and then press the **Stage & Run Query** button.
```

<figure data-zoomable align='center'>
<img className="box-shadowed-image" src="/img/docs/frontend-monitoring/define-the-metric.webp" alt="Define the Metric"/>
<figcaption><i>Set the Traces Field to filter ResourceFetch Data</i></figcaption>
</figure>

### Define Alert Condition

> Next, you will define an alert condition. Set the `Send a notification when ...`  field to read as **Send a notification when `A` is `above` the threshold `at least once` during the last `5 mins`.** Next, set the `Alert Thresholds` field to `10 seconds`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Define an alert condition with **Send a notification when `A` is `above` the threshold `at least once` during the last `5 mins`** and set the  `Alert Threshold` field to `10 seconds`.
```

<figure data-zoomable align='center'>
<img className="box-shadowed-image" src="/img/docs/frontend-monitoring/alert-conditions.webp" alt="Set Alert Condition"/>
<figcaption><i>Set the Alert Condition</i></figcaption>
</figure>

### Set Alert Configuration

> Here, set the severity field to `critical`. Next, set the `Alert Name` field to `ResourceFetch`. Next, turn on the alert all notification channel field. Lastly, save the rule and test the notification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the `Severity` field to `critical`, the `Alert Name` field to `ResourceFetch`, toggle on the `Alert all the configured channels` field to alert all the notification channels. You can choose to send the alert to a particular notification channel by selecting a particular Notifcation Channel from the dropdown. Save the rule and test the notification.
```

<figure data-zoomable align='center'>
<img className="box-shadowed-image" src="/img/docs/frontend-monitoring/alert-configuration.webp" alt="Set Alert Configuration"/>
<figcaption><i>Set the Alert Configuration</i></figcaption>
</figure>

> With that, you have successfully integrated OpenTelemetry to auto-instrument your web application for collecting document load data. You have also learned how to set useful alerts on the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this, you have successfully set up a useful alerts on your data.
```
